Know/review limits for EC2 [Question]

AWS EC2 was released in 2006.

Amazon Elastic Compute Cloud is a web service that provides resizable compute capacity in the cloud.

It reduces time to obtain a new server and boot to minutes thus reduces time to scale very easily.

EC2- options

1. On Demand - allows you to pay a fixed rate by the hour with no commitment.

    -> Perfect for users that want the low cost and flexibility without up front payment or long term commitment.
    -> Applications with short term, spiky, or unpredictable workloads that cannot be interrupted.
    -> Applications being develped or tested on Amazon EC2 for the first time.

2. Reserved - provides you with a capacity reservation, and offer a siginificant discount on the hourly charge for an instance. 1 year or 3 year terms.
    -> Applications with steady state or predictable usage
    -> Applications that require reserved capacity
    -> Users can make up front payments to reduce the cost even further.
    -> Standard RIs
    -> Convertible RIs
    -> Scheduled RIs (scale it on a particular day)

3. Spot - enables you to bid whatever price you want for instance capacity, providing for even greater savings if your applications have flexible start and end times.
    -> Applications that have flexible start and end times
    -> Applications that are only feasible at very low compute prices
    -> Users with an urgent need for large computational capacity(Genome etc)

4. Dedicated Hosts - Physical EC2 server dedicated for your use. Dedicated hosts can help you reduce costs by allowing you to use your existing server bound software licenses.
   -> Useful for licenses that doesn't support cloud virtulization etc.

???EC2(FIGHT DR MC PX)???


Note: Some Windows or Linux AMIs carry with them an additional hourly charge from the provider instead of secondly.


EC-2 Instance type types

F1 Field Programmable Gate Array | Genomic Research, real time video processing
I3 High Speed Storage
G3 Graphics intensive | Video Encoding and shit
H1 High Disk Throughput | Map Reduce based workloads

T2 Lowest Cost, General Purpose | Web Servers/ small DBs

D2 Dense Storage | file servers/ Data wwarehousing

R4 \ Memory Optimized | memory intensive Apps/DBs

M5 General Purpose | Application servers

C5 Compute Optimized | CPU Intensive Apps/DBs

P3 Gen | machine Learning, Bit Coin Mining etc

X1 Memory Optimized | SAP HANA/Apache Spark etc (Huge Amount of RAMs)

The Alphabet remains the same. It represents the family. T2 might change to T3. Remember the letter not the number.


F - for FPGA
I - IOPS
G - Graphics
H - High Disk Throughput
T - cheap general purpose
D - Density
R - RAM
M - main choice general purpose apps
C - compute
P - Graphics
X - Extreme Memory


What is EBS??

Elastic Block Storage

An Amazon EBS volume is a durable, block-level storage device that you can attach to a single EC2 instance.
EBS volumes persist independently from the running life of an EC2 instance. After a volume is attached to an instance, you can use it like any other physical hard drive.
You can create file system on top of these volumes, run a database, or use them in any other way you would use a block device. Amazon EBS are placed in a specific availbility zone where they are automatically replicated to protect you from the failure of a single component.

EBS Volume Types (Exam Question)

1. SSD

1.1 General Purpose SSD(GP2)
- General purpose, balances both price and performance.
-ratio of 3 IOPS per GB with up to 10,000 IOPS and the ability to burst up to 3000 IOPS for extended periods
[exam question] An EBS need with less than 10,000 IOPS. ans->GP2

1.2 Provisioned IOPS SSD
-Good for Big, NOSQL Databases
[question] for the above use case. can provision upto 20,000 IOPS per volume.


2. Magnetic
2.1 Throughput Optimized HDD (ST1)
 - Big Data
 - Data Warehouses
 - Log Processing
 - Cannot be a boot volume

2.2 Cold HDD (SC1)
-Lowest Cost Storage designed for less frequently accessed workloads.

2.3 Magnetic
-Lowest cost per gigabyte of all EBS volume types that is bootable.
previous generation.

ELB and session cookies (http://docs.aws.amazon.com/ElasticLoadBalancing/latest/DeveloperGuide/elb-sticky-sessions.html)

Elastic Load Balancer
Balances load between 2 servers such that load is balanced and no server gets overloaded.

    Familiarise yourself with OSI layer (Open Systems Interconnection )
    1. Physical (lower) - electrical and mechanical level
    2. Data Link (lower) - data packets are encoded and decoded into bits
    3. Network (lower) - Switching and Routing
    4. Transport (lower) - UDP
    5. Session (upper) - manage connection between applications
    6. Presentation (upper) - data transformation e.g ASCII
    7. Application (upper) - Email, Telnet, FTP, HTTP

Now there are three type of load balancers
1. Application Load balancers (they can make very clever decision and they operate at layer 7)
    - They are best suited for balancing HTTP and HTTPS traffi,c They operate at layer 7 and are intelligent.
    - You can create advanced request routing sending specified request to specified server.
2. Network Load Balancer (operates at layer 4, most expensive, used in production)
    - Best Suited for load balancing of TCP traffic where extreme performance is required.
    - Operates at layer 4.
    - Capable of handling millions of requests per second.
3. Classic Load Balancer (there for legacy purposes) !important
    - load balance HTTP/HTTPS applications and use Layer 7-specific features, such as X-Forwarded and sticky sessions.
    - You can strict Layer 4 load balancing for applications that rely prely on the TCP protocol.

Load Balancer Errors

Classic Load Balancers - if your application stops responding, the ELB (classic load balancer) responds with a 504 error.
This means that the application is having issues either at the database or web server layer.
Identify where it is failing and scale it up or out where possible.
504 error means gateway has timed out.
EC2 Exam tips

-4 demand pricing types

[Important] If a spot instance is terminated by Amazon EC2, you will not be charged for a partial hour of usage. However, if you terminate it yourself, you will be charged for the complete hour in which the instance ran.

- questions on Classic LoadBalancer

EC2 LAB--->>>

root volume is the one that has OS running on it.

Volumes that are created from encrypted snapshots are automatically encrypted, and volumes that are created from unencrypted snapshots are unencrypted

EBS volumes must be in the same availbility zone.

To encrypt an unencrypted snapshot you need to make a copy and encrypt it.
--then create image and deploy it. This time the root volume will be encrypted.

Thus you can encrypt the root device volume (the volume the OS is installed on) using operating System level encryption.
You can encrypt the root device volume by first making a snapshot of that volume and then creating a copy of it.

Additional attached volumes can easily be encrypted using console, CLI or API.
