AWS KMS

A managed service that helps you create and control Encryption Keys used to encrypt the data.
AWS KMS is integrated with other AWS services including, EBS, S3, Amazon Redshift, Amazon Elastic Transcoder, Amazon Workmail etc.

Encryption Keys are regional.[Important bitch] Users Groups etc can be global.

Customer Master Key

CMK
  alias
  creation date
  description
  key state
  key material(either customer provided or AWS provided)

Can never be exported.

Code to be used in aws cli
aws kms encrypt --key-id YOURKEYIDHERE --plaintext fileb://secret.txt --output text --query CiphertextBlob | base64 --decode > encryptedsecret.txt
aws kms decrypt --ciphertext-blob fileb://encryptedsecret.txt --output text --query Plaintext | base64 --decode > decryptedsecret.txt
aws kms re-encrypt --destination-key-id YOURKEYIDHERE --ciphertext-blob fileb://encryptedsecret.txt | base64 > newencryption.txt
aws kms enable-key-rotation --key-id YOURKEYIDHERE

What does all these do?
re-encrypt - decyrpts the encrypted one and then re-encrypts again.

KMS ENVELOPE ENCRYPTION

Envelope Key is what is used to de-crypt the data.

Customer Master key is used to decrypt data key.

For Deleting the key you first have to disable it. An it is usually deleted in minimum of 1 week.

1. In IAAS ,

AWS has to manage :

*Global infrastructure like Regions, AV's etc.

*Foundation Services like Compute, Storage, DB and Networking.

example if hyper visor issue in Compute AWS will fix

Customer has to manage :

*Operating sys,Network firewalls,Encryption,Platform

*app management and user data

2. In Container services like RDS and EMR

AWS has to mange:

*Global infrastructure like Regions, AV's etc.

*Foundation Services like Compute,Storage,DB and Networking

*Operating sys,Platform and app management

Customer has to manage :

*Network firewalls,Client side Encryption and user data

In Abstract Services like S3 and dynamodb
AWS has to manage:

Global infrastructure like Regions, AV's etc.

Foundation Services like Compute, Storage, DB and Networking.

Operating sys,Platform and app management

Network firewalls,

Customer has to manage :

Client side Encryption and user data

Use Customer Master Key to Encrypt and user data key to decrypt.


