SNS message format and corresponding API calls SNS message format, API calls for SNS and SWF [Question]
Know/review limits for SNS [Question]
http://docs.aws.amazon.com/sns/latest/dg/mobile-push-send-devicetoken.html

SNS And SWF Notes

1. SNS follows the Publish-Subscribe message paradigm with notification being delivered to the clients using the a PUSH mechanism

2. SQS can deliver via SMS,Email,Email-json ,HTTP,HTTPS,SQS ,Lamba,Application

3. To provide redundancy all the messages are stored in the different availability zones

4. Topic is the access point for allowing the recipient to dynamically subscribe the for identical copies of same notification.IT can support different endpoints IOS ,Android,SMS.when you publish it will send the same to different endpoint in their format

5. 0.50 $ for 1M SNS request

6. 0.06 $ for Http, 0.75$ for 100000 SMS ,2 $ for Emails 100000

7. Subscription will expire in 3 days if not conformed

8. Messages can be customised in the body for different protocols

SWF - task oriented API

Simple Work flow - human interaction to complete order or collection of services to complete a work order.

Workers - interact with SWF to get task, process received task and return the result

Deciders - program that co-ordinates the tasks, i.e. - ordering, concurrency and scheduling

Workers and Deciders can run independently.

TASK is only assigned ONCE and NEVER DUPLICATED (key difference from SQS where messages can be processed multiple times)

SWF Domain - think of it as a container for the work flow. you can register a domain by Console or API

Maximum workflow processing time can 1 year (equivalent seconds) - SQS is 12 hours processing time

This was on the exam. How do you register devices for Amazon Mobile Devices and SNS Mobile Push notifiations.
http://docs.aws.amazon.com/sns/latest/dg/mobile-push-send-devicetoken.html
Answer: use CreatePlatformEndpoint is correct way to do. You can add device tokens and registration IDs to Amazon SNS using the following methods: • Manually add a single token to AWS using the AWS Management Console • Migrate existing tokens from a CSV file to AWS using the AWS Management Console • Upload several tokens using the CreatePlatformEndpoint API • Register tokens from devices that will install your apps in the futur
