What you need to do?
Just complete this course, read the most important FAQs and watch a couple videos on re:Invent 2016 for most important topics (DynamoDB, SQS, S3, EC2, VPC).

Confirm big focus on DynamoDB (~15/55 questions) and S3 (~12/55 questions)

1. Go through the course video's at least twice (once before the exam)

2. Read FAQ from S3,EC2,DyanamoDB,SQS,SNS at least.

3. Whizlabs Practice test which was another game changer.

4. Notes for Revision (https://acloud.guru/forums/aws-certified-developer-associate/discussion/-L-mB4r0GR6jF7qtsEuZ/quicknotesforawsdeveloper)


You should know about:

Optimising S3 Key (File) names for heavy load (http://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonS3/latest/dev/request-rate-perf-considerations.html)

Optimising DynamoDB operations (http://docs.aws.amazon.com/amazondynamodb/latest/developerguide/QueryAndScanGuidelines.html)

ELB and session cookies (http://docs.aws.amazon.com/ElasticLoadBalancing/latest/DeveloperGuide/elb-sticky-sessions.html)

CORS

Resources that Elastic Beanstalk can create.

CloudFormation Output section and Function you would use.

SNS message format

I had quite a few DynamoDB questions about hash and range keys that I was not prepared for based on the course alone.
You need to know what each is and how to optimize each for specific queries for the best performance. Also, know the best filename format in S3 to optimize performance.

I had only 1, maybe 2, questions about calculating your provisioned throughput. The one I recall was about write throughput. There may have been 1 about read as well but there were far more questions about optimizing queries which I felt was not covered at all by Ryan in the course.

Not covered in the course:

Options on authenticating using LDAP together with IAM.
Not covered: LDAP integration, S3 optimization
* Know/review limits for S3, DynamoDB, EC2, SNS, and SQS. Understanding the service limits would have helped with at least 5 questions.
 Also know which AWS services are key-based and which platforms Elastic Beanstalk supports (in addition to which resources it can create, as mentioned by the OP)

This was on the exam. How do you register devices for Amazon Mobile Devices and SNS Mobile Push notifiations.
http://docs.aws.amazon.com/sns/latest/dg/mobile-push-send-devicetoken.html
Answer: use CreatePlatformEndpoint is correct way to do. You can add device tokens and registration IDs to Amazon SNS using the following methods: • Manually add a single token to AWS using the AWS Management Console • Migrate existing tokens from a CSV file to AWS using the AWS Management Console • Upload several tokens using the CreatePlatformEndpoint API • Register tokens from devices that will install your apps in the futur

free test at thecertschool.com


IAM:
Some questions also from IAM including IAM role for DynamoDB, Web Federation, Corporate network, CloudFront, Elastic Beanstalk, Cloud Formation and Elastic Cache.
Options on authenticating using LDAP together with IAM.

S3 - 15 Questions.

CORS, Static Hosting, S3 Encryption Header, S3 Performance optimisation(Mostly on adding uniqueness before the key),Bucket policy and ACL (basically how to restrict),Limits (like total bucket )

DynamoDB (10 Questions)-

Basic questions about Hash and range key ,Throughput error (like if not Table then what is the cause) , Onw question on write throughput calculation

EC2 (5 Question)-

Basic API like DescribeImages,AMI related(example EC2 can be launched from the same region where AMI is stored) and Root Device Encryption .

SQS -(6-7 Questions)

Basic SQS functionality, Protocols used and ,Long Polling ,Max Visibility timeout scenario Questions

SNS (4-5 Questions)

Basic Functionality ,Do check the Format of the SNS Notification and Field used in (JSON ),Fanout concept

SWF(1-2 Questions)

Basic Functionality Scenario Based(like what all the functionally used by SWF)

VPC (5 Questions)

All scenario based 2-3 lines revolving around assigning Elastic address or public address to access the instance and NAT in subnet, Cover Ryan's Video that should suffice.

Rest 5-7 Questions on AWS SDK ,Default region (us-east-1) and Elastic Beanstalk Platforms and Elastic Cache to avoid the session state problem and one Serverless (regarding the Lambda)

 I felt uncomfortable going through questions from Kinesis and DynamoDBStreams and AWS X-Ray

