NAT instances can "Use an Elastic IP address or a public IP address." http://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonVPC/latest/UserGuide/vpc-nat-comparison.html [Question Important]


A virtual private cloud (VPC) is a virtual network dedicated to your AWS account.

Inside this you get the Subnet whic is firewalled by ACL.

each subnet has ec-2 instanes

each subnet must be within one AZ. It can't span AZ.

A VPC is an isolated portion of the AWS cloud populated by AWS objects, such as Amazon EC2 instances.
You must specify an IPv4 address range for your VPC.
Specify the IPv4 address range as a Classless Inter-Domain Routing (CIDR) block; for example, 10.0.0.0/16.
You cannot specify an IPv4 CIDR block larger than /16. You can optionally associate an Amazon-provided IPv6 CIDR block with the VPC.


Each Amazon account comes with a default VPC where in all your ec2-instances etc is launched.
VPC can span multiple availability zones in the region


 Default VPC 12.31.0.0/16 will provide about 65536 IP Addresses

 Subnets are required to launch instances into VPCs.

 Public IP address
 Private IP address
 Elastic IP address (They remian in your account until you
 choose to release it)

 Subnet Definition

 A range of IP Addresses in your VPC; you can launch AWS resources into a subnet that you select.
 Use a public subnet for resources that must be connected to the internet and a private subnet for resources that won't be connected to the interet.

 per subnet around 4000 connections

 A subnet is always mapped to a single availability zone.

 Internet Gateway is a horizontally scaled, redundant, and highly available VPC component that allows communication between instances in your VPC and the internet. It therefore imposes no avaiability risks or bandwidth constraints on your network traffic.

 Basically  Internet Gateway allows VPC to connect to internet.

 Route Table:

 1. Each Subnet in your VPC must be associated with a route table and only one route able
 but the route table can be asoociated with multiple subnets.


VPC Flowlogs: to capture all the traffic information into logs - logs everything (create IAM role and create cloud watch log group - and log stream) [Questions]

VPC Cleanup: can’t delete VPC if you have active running instance or ELB is running [question]



///NEXT LEVEL SHIT/////
VPC - logical datacenters in AWS

Can span multiple AZ, but can’t span multiple regions, PEER VPC, but no Transitive Peering

Custom VPC has to be /16 can’t go higher then that /8 is not allowed

When you create Custom VPC it creates default security group, default network ACL and default route table., it doesn’t create default Subnet

One Subnet == one AZ, you can have security group spanning multiple AZ, ACL’s span across AZ (assign sg and ACL to two different subnets)

any CIDR block 5 reserved IPs (.0, .1, .2, .3, .255)

so for CIRD block /24: 2^8 - 5 = 256 - 5 = 251 available IP address space

when you create internet gateway, by default its detached, attach it to VPC then, only 1 IGW per VPC

When you create a VPC Default Routetable(Main Routable) is created where the default Routes are,

10.0.0.0/16 Local <— all subnets inside VPC will be able to talk to each other

Don’t touch Main route table

Create another routetable for route out to internet (0.0.0.0/0 IGW) <— route out to the internet

Last thing you associate this new route table to one of the subnet which will make it public. (you can enable auto assign public IP for the public subnet)

1 subnet can have 1 routetable

ICMP is for ping / monitor

NAT instance and NAT gateway

NAT Instance - disable source / destination check., always behind security group, must be in public subnet, must have an EIP, ,must be a route out of the private subnet to NAT

Increase the instance size if bottleneck

Change the main route table - add a route (0.0.0.0/0 NAT Instance target)

NAT Instance is a single point of failover (put it behind a ASG),

NAT gateway - released in 2016 - amazon handled

Amazon maintains it for you, no need to handle yourself. (security patches applied by AWS)

You can just create the gateway and assign EIP (put it in public subnet) (automatically assigned)

Change the main route table - add a route (0.0.0.0/0 NAT gateway target)

No need for disable source/destination check or no need to put it behind a security group - it handles it for you.

Highly available / redundancy no need for ASG.NAT gateways are little bit costly - always use it in production scale automatically up to 10Gbps

