Relational DataBase Service

These are the database types that we can provision:

1. SQL Server
2. Oracle
3. MySQL Server
4. PostgreSQL
5. Aurora (Amazon's Own)
6. MariaDB

DynamoDB to handle Non Relational DataBase

RedShift - OLAP 

Data Warehousing
Used for business Intelligence. Tools like Cognos, Jaspersoft, SQL Server
Reporting Services, Oracle Hyperion, and SAP NetWeaver.

Used to pull in very large and complex data sets. Usually used by managements to do queries on data

Used for Reporting only not for production


OLTP vs OLAP
Something related to order 

Something related to profit, unit purchase etc in some region.

ElastiCache - In memory caching

A web service that makes it easy to deploy, operate, and scale an in memory cache in the cloud.
The service improves the performance of web applications by allowing you to retrieve information from 
fast, managed, in memory caches, instead of relying entirely on slower disk based databases.

Elasticache supports two open-source in-memory caching engine.

1. Memcached
2. Redis

LeaderBoard kinda website faster -> Redis



Difference Betweem MultiAZ and Read Replicas ***Imortant
(RDS - Back Ups, Multi AZ & Read Replicas)

There are two types of backups

1. Automated Backups and DataBase Snapshots.
2. Automated Backups allow you to recover your database to any point in time within a 
"retention period". The retention period can be between one and 35 days. Automated Backups 
will take a full daily snapshot and will also store transaction logs throughout the day. This allows
you to do a point in time recovery down to a second, within the retention period.
Enabled by default and is stored on s3 for free.

if I have 10gb RDS I get 10gb S3 size for free.

Snapshots are done manually and are stored even after you delete the original RDS instance, 
unlike automated backups.

Encrypting an existing database is not supported now.

If a Rest endpoint is encrypted, the underlying storage is encrypted.


MULTI AZ is for disaster recovery only.

If you want performance improvement, you need read Replicas.

READ Replicas

scaling out the database to improve performance improvement.

Read Replicas can be in dfiference region and availability zones.


Not availabile for SQL Server or Aurora. 




